---
title: "Giovanni Sansavini's Talk on Engineering Energy Networks Facing Global Transition:
From Predicting Cascading Failures to Optimizing System Safety"
date: 2023-06-02T10:00:00+10:00
draft: false
---


__Title:__ Optimisation and control of distributed energy resources for power
and voltage regulation in distribution networks


__Time, Date, Location__: 10:00, Thursday, June 2, 2023, Brian Anderson Seminar Room


__Abstract:__ Aiming at a sustainable energy production and at securing their
energy supply, many countries are about to transition from a fossil-dominated to
a green energy mix encompassing sunlight, mechanical energy and heat together
with fossil and synthetic fuels. At the same time, the energy infrastructure is
evolving from a collection of independently built, isolated energy carrier
networks towards globally-integrated multi-energy systems. The integration of
networks is clearly beneficial in view of designing optimal sustainable energy
systems, but their heavily interconnected nature makes them vulnerable to
cascading failures with potentially catastrophic consequences. This talk
addresses the grand challenges and presents the methodological developments
necessary to guide the evolution of energy infrastructure through
vulnerability-based adaptation. They encompass (i) the development of
high-fidelity, efficient mathematical models for quantifying the risk of
cascading failures across the power infrastructure; (ii) investigating the
trade-offs and optimal solutions in the energy trilemma for active distribution
networks; (iii) developing and validating early warning indicators of critical
transitions and fault diagnosis tools in complex dynamical systems; (iv)
quantifying the cost of resilience in the design of carbon capture, transport
and storage supply chains. Aside from presenting recent methodological
developments, the future research challenges related to the engineering of
resilient energy networks are also discussed.


__Bio:__ Giovanni Sansavini is an Associate Professor of Reliability and Risk
Engineering at the Institute of Energy and Process Engineering, ETH Zurich.
Currently, he is chairperson of the ETH Risk Center and of the Technical
Committee on Critical Infrastructures of the European Safety and Reliability
Association (ESRA). Giovanni Sansavini graduated in Nuclear Engineering (MSc,
2005 & PhD 2010, Politecnico di Milano, 2010) and Mechanical Engineering (PhD,
2010, Virginia Tech). His research focuses on the development of hybrid
analytical and computational tools suitable for analyzing and simulating failure
behaviors of engineered complex systems, with focus on physically networked
critical infrastructures and sustainable energy systems. He aims to
quantitatively define reliability, vulnerability, resilience, and risk within
these systems using a computational approach based on physical system modeling,
advanced Monte Carlo simulation, soft computing techniques, and optimization.
