---
title: "Phillippe Phanivong's talk on Advancements in Tariff Design and Load Optimization for Congestion Management"
date: 2023-12-08T11:00:00+10:00
draft: false
---


__Title:__  Advancements in Tariff Design and Load Optimization for Congestion Management

__Time, Date, Location__: 11:00, Friday, 08 December, 2023, Brian Anderson Building Seminar Room

__Abstract:__ 
Customers in the US are adopting new energy technologies, incentivized by
state and federal electrification programs. At the same time, utilities and
regulators are exploring new pricing strategies to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions and energy costs. Will the electrical distribution system be able
to support these innovations without expensive system upgrades? In this
talk, I explore challenges in price-signal control of distributed energy
resources (DERs) and the potential congestion management issues that arise
in the distribution system. I will then present a data-driven approach for
voltage management and a novel electricity tariff designed for congestion
management of DERs.

__Bio:__ Dr. Phillippe Phanivong is a Postdoctoral Scholar at the California
Institute for Energy and Environment (CIEE). Phillippe works at the
intersection of power systems engineering, energy economics, and
electricity regulation. His research interests include distributed energy
resources, price-signal control, congestion management, and electricity
market design. Phillippe earned his PhD in the Energy and Resources Group
from UC Berkeley in August 2023. Before college, Phillippe served in the US
Navy, working as a nuclear power plant electrician on an aircraft carrier.
He holds an AS from North Seattle Community College and a BS in Electrical
Engineering from the University of Washington.
